---
title: Archival docs
---
= Archival wmii documentation =
Here, for archival purposes, are the guides to historical releases of wmii. They have been superseded by doc/wmii.pdf in the standard distribution.

== A GUIDE TO wmii ==
These documents are licensed under the terms of the [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html GNU GPLv2].

This is a page about the beginners guide to wmii, a document written to give newcomers a good understanding of wmii, the usage, the project and its goals. The original version was written by Steffen Liebergeld in English.

Please feel free to express your ideas/corrections/critics about this paper. It would be especially nice if a native english speaker could overlook the english paper and send his/her critique. Furthermore, new translations are always welcome.

Also, please note that there have been many changes since wmii-3.1 so that the guide can not be applied to newer versions.

== wmii-3.1 ==

|| English || Dutch || Italian || Spanish ||
|| [http://web.archive.org/web/20111105224111/http://code.suckless.org/contrib/guide/wmii-3/guide-en/guide_en html] || [http://web.archive.org/web/20111105224111/http://code.suckless.org/contrib/guide/wmii-3/guide-nl/guide_nl html] || [http://web.archive.org/web/20111105224111/http://code.suckless.org/contrib/guide/wmii-3/guide-it/guide_it html] || [http://web.archive.org/web/20111105224111/http://code.suckless.org/contrib/guide/wmii-3/guide-es/guide_es html] ||

Original guide by Steffen Liebergeld (stepardo) - perl at gmx.org
Dutch translation by Jeremy Roon - p.roon at chello.nl
Italian translation by Stefano Lee - wizinblack at gmail.com
Spanish translation by Salvador Peiro (gualteri) - saoret.one at gmail.com

== wmii-2 ==

|| German || Italian ||
|| [http://web.archive.org/web/20111105224111/http://code.suckless.org/contrib/guide/wmii-2/guide-de/guide-de html] || [http://web.archive.org/web/20111105224111/http://code.suckless.org/contrib/guide/wmii-2/guide-it/guide-it html] ||

German translation by Norman Golisz - hp at zcat.de
